Spawn
## Around March and April, water temperatures are rising. Bass will start to emerge from the depths of the lake to reproduce. When water temperatures touch 60 degrees, bass will linger near deeper primary points and ledges to wait for the water to reach 65 degrees. Once it gets to that point, males will swim up into the shallows to fan out nests. Normally, nests are 3-4 feet deep; however, it is not uncommon to see nests in 12 feet of water. Nests will look like unnatural lighter spots on the bottom. They are usually circles 20-25 inches in circumference. 
	Because they are preoccupied with reproduction, bass will not feed much. During this period of the spawn, catching bass will prove difficult. Difficult but not impossible. Through careful boat positioning and well-placed casts, one might incur a defensive strike from the males. The females in the deeper waters might still offer predatory strikes on soft plastics or slowly presented swim jigs. 
	After nests are in order, males will round up females from deeper waters and literally herd them to the location. Females might lay eggs in multiple nests but then return to the depths after her egg reservoirs are depleted. The males stick around to protect their nests, and this is when the fun begins! You can throw a fork around a male’s nest and he will strike it; however, just as it is frowned upon to keep females full of eggs, pulling males off a nest should be nothing more than “catch and release”. Eggs hatch in 3-4 days but the male will remain for around a week to continue to protect his offspring. 
	If you watch the water temperature reports and are on the water as soon as it reaches 65 degrees, you will have loads of fun enticing spawning bass; but remember, keeping bass during this time takes them away from producing offspring for the future. 
