In the summer, Bass move to two areas, shade and deeper and cooler waters. They do this to escape the intensity of the sun; however, this does not mean that bass swim to the bottom of the lake. You might hear fishermen talking about catching that big one right above the “thermocline” What is the thermocline? The thermocline is an narrow band of water stretching horizontally throughout a lake. Beyond this point, water temperatures plummet and dissolved oxygen levels are depleted. Nothing survives beyond the thermocline due to this lack of oxygen. The thermocline exists due to a lack of wind to mix lake water- this in turn creates an extreme temperature difference between the surface (exposed to the sun), and deeper waters (too deep for sun’s heat to penetrate). When temperature differences become too drastic, cooler, less dense water stays deeper and warmer, lighter water rises to the upper portions of the lake. The split is at the thermocline. 
	In the fall, atmospheric temperatures fall wind picks up. Wind causes warmer surface waters to cool and eventually it is cool enough to mix with deeper waters- eliminating the thermocline. During the winter, surface temperatures are actually cooler than deeper water. Bass can live in the bottoms of lakes at this time and is where they go to warm themselves and lie a little more dormant than in the warmer seasons. Fish do not hibernate; they simply slow down due to their cold-blooded nature. 
	When atmospheric temperatures begin to rise again in the spring, fish begin to move to shallower waters to feed and warm up. The lake experiences a phenomenon known as the “turn-over”. During this 2-4 day period, the lake becomes very stained and full of organic matter from the bottom. This “turn-over” is not lethal to fish barring extreme circumstances although it is a period of lower oxygen levels. 
